fix: Connect to localhost db Rehaul (#1183)
appsmithorg/appsmith-docs: website/docs/learning-and-resources/how-to-guides/how-to-work-with-local-apis-on-appsmith.mdx

---

sidebar_position: 5

description: >-
  This guide helps you to connect your APIs or databases running on localhost
  with Appsmith using host.docker.internal or ngrok.
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Connect to Localhost Databases and APIs

This page describes how to connect a database or API that is hosted locally on the same machine as your Appsmith instance.

> <Tabs>

Reviewer: Let's probably avoid tabs for this and keep them as separate sections, as these appear to be different scenarios altogether.

 <TabItem label="Docker" value="docker">

## Connect with Docker

> By using `host.docker.internal`, you can direct Appsmith's docker container to find your database or API on its own host machine:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect from Appsmith running in a Docker container to a database or API service on localhost, use `host.docker.internal` which resolves to the internal IP address used by the host. See official [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/networking/#i-want-to-connect-from-a-container-to-a-service-on-the-host) for more information
```

```bash
--add-host=host.docker.internal:host-gateway
```

Or, for `docker-compose`, update your docker-compose.yaml file to include the following `extra_hosts` option:

```yml
services: ...
  postgres: ...
    environment: ...
    extra_hosts:
      - "host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
```

:::

To connect to your database or API from Appsmith:

1. Ensure that all of the relevant Docker containers are running.

2. In your Appsmith app, create a [datasource](/core-concepts/connecting-to-data-sources) for the appropriate type of database or API.

3. In the **Host Address** or URL field where you'd normally provide the URL for your datasource, instead enter `host.docker.internal`. Otherwise, configure your datasource details as normal.

4. Click **Test** to verify that the connection is valid.

Your localhost application should now be connected and query-able from within your Appsmith app.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/local_db_config.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Using host.docker.internal" />

>   <figcaption align="center"><i>Using host.docker.internal</i></figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption align="center"><i>Connecting from Appsmith in Docker container to PostgreSQL database running on localhost</i></figcaption>
```

</figure>

 </TabItem>

 <TabItem label="ngrok" value="ngrok">

> ## Connect with ngrok

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connect Appsmith cloud to datasource on localhost
```

  ```
  ngrok <protocol> <port>
  ```
  For example, you might use this for a PostgreSQL database instance:
  ```
  ngrok tcp 5432
  ```

2. When the command completes, ngrok returns you a set of session details including the **Forwarding** address. It should look something like:
    * For **tcp**:
    ```
    tcp://0.tcp.in.ngrok.io:17392
    ```
    In this address, `tcp://0.tcp.in.ngrok.io` is the **Host Address** and `17392` is the **Port**.

    * For **http**:
    ```
    https://e4da-2600-1700-ede0-5b20-b092-ac43-60a7-178b.ngrok-free.app
    ```
    This is simply the URL to use for your API, no port necessary.

3. Back in your Appsmith app, create a [datasource](/core-concepts/connecting-to-data-sources) for the appropriate type of database or API.

4. Enter the URL or **Host Address** & **Port** that you just got from ngrok, then configure your remaining datasource details as normal.

5. Click **Test** to verify that the connection is valid.

Your localhost application should now be connected and query-able from within your Appsmith app.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/ngrok-config-example.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Connecting via ngrok" />

>   <figcaption align="center"><i>Connecting via ngrok</i></figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption align="center"><i>Connecting from Appsmith cloud to local PostgreSQL database using ngrok</i></figcaption>
```
